I"Â<h2 id="inktober-in-review">Inktober in Review</h2>

<p>Since tomorrow is October 31st and I am officially done with my sprint, I wanted to take some time to reflect on the project in total as it stands right now.</p>

<p>But first, I wanted to thank everyone on my committee for your patience and encouragement! Because of an email filtering screw-up on my part, I hadn‚Äôt seen your responses to my weekly blog posts for about two weeks, so I wanted to reply en masse here and thank you guys for the kind words and thoughtful comments. This is an ambitious and wildly evolving project so thank you for believing in me, advising me, and just sending quick little notes of encouragement. It means a lot to me and this project is much better for it, so thank you!</p>

<p>Now for the academics. I originally categorized this whole endeavor as an auto-ethnographic study because I would be immersing myself into the production process of webcomics, a medium which I‚Äôm very familiar with from a fan perspective. In hindsight, this is much more of an <em>ethnographic</em> study because that fan participation in no way translates into actionable wisdom and knowledge of how to create webcomics. As a fan, I‚Äôve seen good and bad webcomics and I know the loose conventions and boundaries of the genre. I know why certain comics are popular, how they utilize the genre to tell engaging stories, how they manipulate digital platforms to create interesting elements. I also have a general sense of good and bad writing as well as good and bad website design from my coursework. All of this knowledge mostly sums up to an effective framework to study and critique webcomics as nicely packaged end-products. However, none of that knowledge of what makes a good and a bad webcomic translates into how to <em>create</em> a good or a bad webcomic.</p>

<p>In short, I don‚Äôt know what the hell I‚Äôm doing, I just know if it sucks.</p>

<p>Which is why I would re-categorize my study as definitively ethnographic. I‚Äôm not involved in the production of these webcomics outside of my own academic inquiry, and my participation in fan culture hasn‚Äôt prepared me for being on the authorial side of the content. In this way, even though I‚Äôm not really immersing myself in a community or group, I would consider myself to be an academic interloper inside a specific subculture of internet authoring, and therefore an ethnographer. And like all ethnographers, my preconceived notions of my academic interest have been authoritatively challenged. For example, my initial framework is absolutely incomplete. In my prospectus I identified five attributes of ‚Äúenhanced webcomics‚Äù or webcomics that attempt to utilize their digital format to their advantage instead of simply reproduce print comic pages online. Those five attributes were interface design, the infinite canvas, movement, experimentation, and interactivity. I would like to propose two more: expertise and seriality.</p>

<p>I would argue expertise is an important dimension of webcomics because many authors use their specific talents and skill sets to their advantage when creating webcomics. Brennan Lee Mulligan of the webcomic Strong Female Protagonist uses his expertise in philosophy to elevate his superhero webcomic from just another superhero story to an exploration of morality and humanity in extreme circumstances. Jon Bois of 17776: What Football Will Look Like in the Future uses his extensive experience as a video producer to create enthralling videos that complement each chapter of his narrative. Noelle Stevenson of Lumberjanes and Nimona uses her talent as an illustrator to create a visually compelling experimental comic. Each comic‚Äôs greatest strength typically comes from some artistic talent of the creator, which drives the comic‚Äôs popularity and engagement. As someone with a split skill set whose talent mostly lies in analysis and programming, there hasn‚Äôt been a whole lot of opportunity for me to leverage these skills into my comic yet, which explains why it feels flat at the moment.</p>

<p>I also wanted to highlight the serial nature of comics as an important attribute, because up until now I‚Äôve really only been considering them as completed works. Most times, webcomics are released page-by-page or chapter-by-chapter over a period of time. Paranatural and Gunnerkrigg Court, which I cited in my prospectus, both have pretty strict update schedules where they always post a new page on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. On the other end of the spectrum, Homestuck by Andrew Hussie had a chaotic and unplanned update schedule where he went from posting almost daily, to having long hiatuses of months or years at a time. The largest of these hiatuses were humorously dubbed the Gigapause of 2013 and the Omegapause of 2015 due to their huge length.</p>

<p>It seems that webcomics are authored with a general narrative direction in mind, but often evolve over the course of structured updates. I‚Äôm not entirely sure if many authors even have an ending in mind when they set out to begin their webcomic. Oftentimes, endings can even fall flat or tonally mismatch the comic itself. To return to the Homestuck example, its ending was largely viewed as an enormous disappointment by fans. Hussie created such an arms race of rising tension and enormous stakes in his sci-fi genre-bending comic that by the time the Omegapause was over and the ending was posted online, many fans were extremely disappointed with the almost deus ex machina resolution. Many long-term webcomics have yet to end, including Paranatural, Gunnerkrigg Court, and Strong Female Protagonist. Strong Female Protagonist, interestingly enough, is on a break of undetermined length because the authors are too busy to devote the time and attention they need in order to make an ending that would satisfy the fans. I think that the fraught history of webcomic endings and the adherence to an update schedule really speaks to the appeal of the webcomic as an ongoing journey. There‚Äôs a certain comfort and fascination in the habit of checking your favorite one each week, and growing along with the comic over the course of time. I found my favorite comic, Gunnerkrigg Court, when I was in my early teens, which is about the same age as the main characters. As I‚Äôve grown older and the comic has progressed, its been interesting to see the characters face the similar problems of growing up that I have, albeit they also have to face the existential magical threats of divine machinations.</p>

<p>So to tie this back to my own work, what do these new mediums of expertise and seriality mean for my project? Well first, I would argue that I‚Äôm not playing to my strengths in my design concept for the comic. I‚Äôve focused on a text-heavy model within the fantasy genre when I‚Äôm not an accomplished fantasy author. I think the expertise I could‚Äôve brought to this project is programming, where I could have used a branching structure or created interactive components that change the text or webpage. It would have been much more experimental but what the hell, it‚Äôs an undergraduate thesis. I‚Äôm not going for tenure so I can mess around a little.</p>

<p>Returning to the dimension of seriality, I think that designing my comic to be released all at once in a wrapped-up package was a misstep. I think that it would have been much more productive to pitch a story concept and raise a few interesting questions, maybe focus on three really good chapters instead of the whole kitchen sink right from the start. That being said, I think that what I have is pretty good as far as an introduction to an interesting story. The way I play with the flashbacks is fun, and with revision my prose could be a pretty interesting introduction to my little universe. Also, I think my decision not to write the ending was a good one. Once I‚Äôm done programming the website and I have my proof of concept, I can go back and revise my writing to be more open-ended, almost like an invitation to a larger story-world and serial work, instead of the closed ecosystem I originally designed it as.</p>
:ET